---
layout: post
title: Discuss!
---

The issues, topics and enthusiasm around data and Data Carpentry has been
growing. To create an online community space where Data Carpentry workshop participants,
instructors and enthusiasts can interact, we started a discussion forum
[http://discuss.datacarpentry.org](http://discuss.datacarpentry.org)

We do know that this is yet another forum or list that you might want to
pay attention to, so why start yet another communication channel? We've
been hearing from members of the community that they haven't yet found a good
place to discuss data topics and Data Carpentry workshops or content and that having
a forum that provides for persistent and asychronous communication would be
valuable.

On the discuss forum there can be discussions of topics particular to Data and Software Carpentry,
like how long did it take to teach OpenRefine or have you run in to trouble
with installation of Anaconda on computers with French keyboards. It's also
a place for discussion of topics around data, questions people have after workshops,
people looking for resources on a particular topic or discussion of how best
to approach a particular data analysis or organize genomic data.

The discussion forum provides a place for any and all of these types of conversations
and a few features that are useful for community conversations.
- conversations can be asynchronous - with Data Carpentry workshops spanning global time
zones, the times that people can participate in a conversation differ. The persistance
of the forum venue lets people participate when they can.
- threads are persistent - topics discussed often have resources or conclusions
that are useful to refer back to or to refer to new people. The persistence of
the conversations helps here too.
- topics are searchable - if you're looking for information on a particular topic,
the discussion forum is searchable, so you can find what you're looking for
- tune in to just the conversations you're interested in - you can follow just
the particular conversations that you're interested in on the forum or via email
notifications if you turn them on
- or follow all the conversations - you can turn on email notifications for
all the topics or check in on the whole forum

The Data Carpentry community is an amazing group, and to keep the conversations
and community friendly and respectful, we do require that you have a login and
that in discussion on the forum that you obey a code of conduct.
This forum is moderated in the
sense that we will take down problematic posts if we become aware of them.

We are excited about this community space and conversations around data and teaching
of data skills. Go data!
